so now we're getting into our rib section and
we're going to use this opportunity to talk
about a couple really exciting things when it
comes to beef and their grading and different
aging programs so the first thing let's talk
about is grading so oftentimes you hear about
different letters of the alphabet like "B" "A", "AA", "AAA" and Prime
double a triple a and prime and we want to fully
understand what these all mean well here we've got
a nice cross section because this particular piece
of rib is graded "AAA" and
some of the components to this particular
"AAA" will be the fat cap the color of the
muscle the muscle texture itself but also
the inter-muscular marbling we
can see these ribbons of fat
that go within this muscle itself this these
ribbons are what we call intramuscular marbling
the rib section that's right next to it this is
what's considered a "AA" and if when we look
at the particular face of the muscle you can see
that the ribbons of fat are significantly smaller
and so because they're so much smaller that
this one would have been graded a "AA"
whereas this one would have
gotten a stamp of a "AAA"
the next thing we're going to talk about
when we we talk about these two particular
ribs is that one of them is dry aged and the other
one is wet aged now all beef gets aged a minimum
of 10 days and this is simply to allow the enzymes
that exist within the muscle itself to naturally
break down connective tissue and in Canada
our general standard is a minimum of 10 days
if you were to eat a steak cut from here
even given that all things were equal
what it ate the life that it had if you were to
cut a steak pre-10 days the steak will appear to
be significantly tougher than if you were to wait
a minimum of 10 days how we let that animal age or
how we allow that time to pass is gonna be
the difference between what's called wet age
versus dry age so when we dry age something after
the animal has been slaughtered it will hang in a
refrigerator for a period of time when it just
hangs like that in a refrigerated setting that
is referred to as dry aging this particular
section of beef has been dry aged for 40 days
conversely this particular muscle or this
particular rib has been wet aged for 40 days
and so wet aging so the day that this animal
was slaughtered that very same day the animal
would have been butchered or break and broken
down into its respective parts these muscles
were then vacuum sealed and they were stored on
a shelf under vacuum seal and plastic why would
we do dry age versus wet age even though it's
significantly more expensive it's simply because
you get a couple of major properties one you
get a denser more protein-rich flavor and two
you get a bacterial bloom around it so in this
case that bacterial bloom has been carved off
but that bloom will often give the meat a lot
of really amazing new components to flavor
these flavors things like butter popcorn and
mushroom are things that people often talk about
with a wet age the longer it sits
in a bag what ends up happening is
the longer it sits under vacuum you get a
more pronounced iron flavor um in some cases it
you know you can pass it off but sometimes it can
almost taste a little bit gamey or almost livery
so that's a major difference between
the two different aging programs